Did you know that there were almost 500 times more pieces of microplastic in the
seas than stars in the sky? In 2017, United Nations estimated, that there were 51
trillion tiny pieces of microplastic in our oceans today. What is even more scary,
that according to 5 Gyres Organisation, there will be more plastic in the seas
than fish by 2050.
These are very frightening numbers, and I have some more! In 2014, we consumed
about 311 million tonnes of plastic. The main problem with plastic nowadays is that
very small part of the plastic produced is being recycled, a huge part of the plastic
is just being thrown away to landfills where they burn it, or to the nature, seas,
lakes, rivers. This is an enormous issue, because a lot of plastic is just being
used for packaging. If we cut down on using plastic as packaging, then we would
be able to reduce the amount of plastic getting into the nature, which I think is a
win-win situation for everybody.



This story is based on true events, and it happened in 2020. We just had the first
wave of the Covid-19, and the government was still a bit paranoid about people going
abroad for vacation.
My father started planning our summer vacation in the beginning of the year, around
January, and he managed to book an apartment in Croatia near the sea, with our
friends, who had accompanied us in the last few years, summer by summer. Then in March,
the pandemic broke out in the world and the government introduced strict rules for
travelling abroad.
Every summer, we have our national championship of rowing in the middle of the summer,
and my father planned this holiday for the week before this competition, the only
problem was that because of the strict rules, I would have had to stay in quarantine
for at least 5 days. The problem with this quarantine was that I had my competition
next week, so if I had wanted to go to the competition, I would have had to stay home, to avoid this
quarantine.
It was a really tough decision for me, mainly because I really wanted to go to the
sea, and to spend time with my family, but I couldn't have skipped this competition,
because I had my team counting on me. I had to make a decision, so after a long time of
thinking I decided I had to stay home and skip the vacation.
After 3 years, I think I made the right decision. I don't think this because of
the results, but because of the fact that my team counted on me, and I didn't let
them down.
So this is my story about one of the toughest decisions in my life.