Did you know that there were almost 500 times more pieces of microplastic in the
seas than stars in the sky? In 2017, United Nations estimated, that there were 51
trillion tiny pieces of microplastic in our oceans. What is even more scary,
that according to 5 Gyres Organisation, there will be more plastic in the seas
than fish by 2050.
These are very frightening numbers, and I have some more! In 2014, we were consuming
about 311 million tonnes of plastic. The main issue with plastics nowadays is that
very small part of the plastic produced is being recycled, a huge part of the plastic
is just being thrown away to landfills where they burn it or to the nature, seas,
lakes, rivers.
This is an enormous problem, because a lot of plastic is just being used for packaging.
If we cut down on using plastic as packaging, then we would be able to reduce
the amount of plastic getting into the nature, which I think is a win-win situation
for everybody.



This story is based on true events, and it happened in 2020. We just had the first
wave of the Covid-19, and the government was still a bit paranoid about going abroad
for vacation.
My father started planning our summer vacation in the beginning of the year, around
January, and he managed to book an apartment in Croatia near the sea, with our
friends, who accompanied us in the last few years, summer by summer. Then in March,
the pandemic broke out in the world and the government introduced strict rules for
travelling abroad.
Every summer, we have our national championship of rowing in the middle of the season,
and my father planned this holiday a week before this competition, the only
problem was that because of the strict rules, I would have had to stay in quarantine
for at least 5 days. The problem with this quarantine was that I had my competition
the following week, so if I had wanted to go to the competition, I would have had to stay home to avoid this
quarantine.
It was a really tough decision for me, mainly because I really wanted to go to the
sea, and just to spend time with my family, but I couldn't have skipped this competition,
because I had had my team counting on me. I had to make a decision, so after a long time of
thinking I decided I must stay home and skip the vacation.
After 3 years, I believe I made the right decision. I don't think this because of
the results, but because of the fact that my team counted on me, and I didn't let
them down.
So this is my story about one of the toughest decisions in my life.


Ha nem fog esni az eső, el fogok menni boltba
If it isn't raining, I will go to the market

Ha most esik, viszem az esernyőt
If it rained, I would bring my umbrella

Ha nem esett volna az eső, elmentem volna meglátogatni a barátomat
If it hadn't rained, I would have visited my friend

Ha tegnap nem esett volna a hó, holnap mennének a gyerekek iskolába
If it hadn't snowed yesterday, they would go to the school

Ha szeretnél, megvetted volna ezt nekem.
If you loved me, you would have bought this for me